Adam Biele and Alison Sherwood
HW 2 readme file


Hammy’s Adventures! -VR edition: through the mind of the Hamster


This VR game takes you through the life of an adventuring hamster named Hammy, he needs to work through the levels to get to safety. Although this time, you are Hammy! You are stuck in the hamster ball and have to work around this difficult navigation. Each of the 5 levels takes on a different theme and you have to use your VR skills to get him to safety. There are 3 varying levels of difficulty, beginning at difficulty level 0, increasing if you pass the level, and decreasing if you fail the level and have to redo it.


You will see health and score on your screen which demonstrates how much stamina you have left before you lose a life and have to start over at the level and how many coins you have picked up. If your health drains to 0, you lose a life and are brought back to the begging of the current level, You start with 5 lives and once you have lost all of them, you are brought back to the beginning of level one to restart the game. There are two collectibles: coins and cheese which increase score and health respectively. 


There are two different movement modes in this game. When you want to move via the left joystick you have to be in the third person mode, watching Hammy move from a farther away distance. When you want to be able to teleport you have to switch to the first person viewpoint by using X on the controls. When you switch viewpoints you will not be able to move via the left joystick and this time have to utilize the right joystick to teleport to where you want to go. This change of viewpoints is to make teleportation a little harder to use so be careful!


We have also added a level of difficulty through these movement modes! When you are on the teleportation/grabbing mode, use this to clear obstacles of your path and explore the level but then when you switch back to the movement mode you will be set back to where you were before and then you can navigate through.


Controls:


* VR headset provides a viewscreen into the world
* The left joystick moves hammy around throughout the level
* The right joystick allows for teleportation
* X on the left controller switches the viewpoint from 3rd person where you can use the left joystick to first person where you can teleport using the right joystick.
* Use Y to jump (disabled on level 3)
* Use the left or right triggers to grab items in each level
* Use the left joystick to navigate through the menu screens and click the buttons with the trigger


Win the game by navigating through all of the levels, good luck! 


Level 1: Introductory level


This level introduces gameplay, avoid the barrels while moving to the end of the platform. Fall over the edge and face the wrath of lava!


Level 2: In the pond


Jump across lily pads, learning how to control jump to work to decrease health. Consume cheese to increase your health back to normal.


Level 3: Rainbow Hamster Maze


Hammy is stuck in a maze and needs your help getting out! Navigate the movements of the maze while avoiding obstacles to get to the end.


Level 4: In the desert, race to the top


In this race to the top, hammy needs to navigate to the top of this pyramid to proceed to the next, and final level. Master jumping and timing, consume cheese on the way up, and try not to fall all the way down!


Level 5: Spy hamster 


In this last level, Hammy brings out his sneaky side and needs to delicately work to navigate around the pipes in order to not fall down. He is working to avoid the enemy and needs to dodge obstacles while balancing.


A video showcasing the game and how to play:
https://youtu.be/E9q18Jtsekw